TFM for .NET nanoFramework (#208)
dotnet/designs: accepted/2021/nano-framework-tfm/nan-framework-tfm.md

> # Nano Framework TFM

Reviewer: Suggest that we follow the "official" naming, which is nanoFramework (1st '**n**' letter in the name in lower case and a single word).

**Owner** [Immo Landwerth](https://github.com/terrajobst)
**Owner** [Laurent Ellerbach](https://github.com/Ellerbach)
**Owner** [José Simões](https://github.com/josesimoes)

While .NET has been optimized to be a general purpose application development
framework, we also created a flavor of .NET that can be used in the context of
very resource-constrained hardware, called [.NET Micro Framework][netmf]. To

> give you an idea what resource-constrained looks like: 256 KB of flash and 64 KB

Reviewer: For sake of accuracy: these are the constrains of the .NET nanoFramework.
On the old .NETMF these were around 512kB of flash and 128kB of RAM.

of RAM. As such, the .NET Micro Framework doesn't have many features of .NET,
such as generics.

While the [.NET Micro Framework][netmf] is archived, there is a community

> version of it called the [.NET Nano Framework][nanoframework].

Reviewer 2: same, `nanoFramework`
There are few ones in the rest of the text.

Because of the resource constraints there isn't much of a point of being able to
share binaries between .NET nanoFramework and the rest of the .NET ecosystem.
Also, it simply wouldn't even be feasible for it to implement .NET Standard.

> Thus, there are no plans to make .NET Micro Framework compatible with .NET

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thus, there are no plans to make .NET nanoFramework compatible with .NET
```

Standard or the new [.NET 5 based TFMs][net5-tfm].

> However, in order for the .NET Micro Framework to have a tooling experience in

Reviewer 2: I guess for this one, you ment .NET nanoFramework rather than netmf?

Author: Yep :-)

Visual Studio, we need to have a TFM that NuGet package authors can use to build
libraries that are specific to the .NET nanoFramework.

[netmf]: https://github.com/NETMF/netmf-interpreter
[nanoframework]: https://github.com/nanoframework/nf-interpreter
[net5-tfm]: ../../2020/net5/net5.md

## Requirements

### Goals

* NuGet needs to able to recognize the TFM for .NET nanoFramework and select
  assets from a NuGet package into a project that targets .NET nanoFramework.
* NuGet needs to allow creating a NuGet package that includes assets for .NET
  nanoFramework.
* Normal versioning rules need to apply (e.g. a package can offer assets for
  multiple versions of the .NET nanoFramework and NuGet will use the largest
  version that is less or equal to the targeted version).
* Once NuGet knows of the TFM for .NET nanoFramework, the .NET nanoFramework
  maintainers should be able to ship new versions without having to submit any
  changes to the NuGet client.

### Non-Goals

> * NuGet doesn't need understand any compatibility relationships between .NET

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* NuGet doesn't need to understand any compatibility relationships between .NET
```

  Nano Framework and other TFM.

## Stakeholders and Reviewers

* NuGet team
* MSBuild/SDK team

## Design

TFM Component  | Value
---------------|------------------
Friendly name  | netnano

> TFI            | .NETNanoFramework

Reviewer 2: would be better with `.NETnanoFramework` to be consistent with the official branding.
